# Sliding Window | Comments | 0ms

# Intuition

Notice that the *goal* is a **minimum window** returning a `String`. A window implies a sliding window. A sliding window implies two pointers. And **minimum** suggests tracking a minimum.

Notice that the valid substring is only in string `s`. 

Notice that the valid characters are only in string `t`. 

Notice that there are repeating characters in `t`. Repeating characters implies counting the frequency of characters.

Notice the valid characters in `t` are `a-z` and `A-Z`.

Notice that Example 1 shows a valid substring with characters that aren't in `t`. We'll have to handle skipping over invalid characters.

```
Input: s = "ADOBECODEBANC", t = "ABC"
Output: "BANC"
```

# Approach

Sliding window, two pointers, perfect hash, and idiomatic Rust.

Start with a frequency count of valid characters, and a full window length. Decrement those values until a successful window is found, then improve the window size.

Why decrement the frequency counters? It simultaneously handles valid and invalid characters in a simple way. Valid character frequency counts approach zero. Invalid character frequency counts approach `i32::MIN`. Use that knowledge to test the success condition.

Why decrement a valid window length? Decrementing from the full valid window length enables having immediate access to the current success condition at each iteration; otherwise, actively accumulating over all character frequency counts would be necessary.

Use a fixed-size array as a map to character frequency counts. Use a byte character as a key. Use perfect hashing. Perfect hashing is possible due to a constraint's use of uppercase and lowercase English letters only. The perfect hash function is to subtract the smallest byte character `A` from a given key.

Cast characters to bytes for an implementation optimization. The data type `char` is four bytes. The data type `u8` is one byte. Reducing data size can improve runtime performance, especially with larger strings. This is possible due to a constraint's use of uppercase and lowercase English letters.

Use `u32` for character frequency counters. A challenge constraint specifies 10^5 (100,000) as the maximum length of strings `s` and `t`. `u16::MAX` 65,535 < 100,000 < `u32::MAX` 4,294,967,295.

Use a declarative macro `cnts!` for improve code readability. Allows for a `u8` as a map key. The declarative macro generates code at compile time.

```rust
// A call to the macro cnts!.
cnts![byts[cur.lft]] += 1;

// The same call with the macro expanded code.
cnts[(byts[cur.lft as usize] - b'A') as usize] += 1;
```

Use a window struct `Wnd` to improve code readability.

Use `Option<T>` and `map_or` for idiomatic handling of the null min condition.

# Complexity

- Time complexity: `O(|s| + |t|)`
    - `|s|` is the length of string `s`.
    - `|t|` is the length of string `t`.
- Space complexity: `O(1)`
    - Constant space is allocated in the frequency counter map and supporting variables.

# Metrics

Measured in CPU cycles.

Prefer solution `b`; faster.
```
┌───────────────────┬───────┐
│ len               ┆ 1     │
╞═══════════════════╪═══════╡
│ a,minwin          ┆ 2,680 │
├╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┤
│ b,minwin,mcr      ┆ 240   │
├╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┤
│ ratio (max / min) ┆ 11.2  │
└───────────────────┴───────┘
```

Equivalent. Prefer `mcr`; easier to read.
```
┌───────────────────┬─────┐
│ len               ┆ 1   │
╞═══════════════════╪═════╡
│ b,minwin,arr      ┆ 240 │
├╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌┤
│ b,minwin,mcr      ┆ 240 │
├╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌┤
│ ratio (max / min) ┆ 1   │
└───────────────────┴─────┘
```

Equivalent. Prefer `usize` indexes; easier to read and write.
```
┌───────────────────┬─────┐
│ len               ┆ 1   │
╞═══════════════════╪═════╡
│ b,minwin,mcr,idx  ┆ 240 │
├╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌┤
│ b,minwin,mcr      ┆ 240 │
├╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌┤
│ ratio (max / min) ┆ 1   │
└───────────────────┴─────┘
```